This page documents the buildslaves used by the Twisted project

= Subpages list =

[[TitleIndex(ContinuousIntegration/Buildslaves/, depth=0)]]

= Buildslave on Windows =

It is recommmended to create a dedicated non-administrator account for the buildslave. You can call it `buildslave`.
During the installation you can temporary add the `buildslave` account to the `Administrators` group so that while an administrator you can `Run as...` commands using the `buildslave` account.

For upstream Buildbot under Windows notes see http://trac.buildbot.net/wiki/RunningBuildbotOnWindows

General notes:

* Install latest Git for Windows with pull and commit as-it-is
* Python versions will come with pip, so using pip install `virtualenv wheel`

For Python 2.7 builders and running the buildslave itself.

* Get the latest Python 2.7 x64 and install it in `c:\Python27`
* Get the C++ compiler for Python 2.7 from MS and install it using the user under which the buildslave will run. The compiler is **not** installed for all users.
* For buildslave, install it with `pip install buildbot-slave`
* Install the build-slave workdir in `c:\buildslave`
* pypiwin32 will not copy the pywin32 system files to Windows. Copy the content of `C:\Python27\Lib\site-packages\pywin32_system32` to `C:\Python27\Lib\site-packages\win32` so that you can execute `C:\Python27\Lib\site-packages\win32\pythonservice.exe` as any user


For Python 3.4:

* Get latest Python 3.4 x86 and install it on `c:\\Python34` for all users.
* This is for x86 as getting an 64bit Visual C++ 10.0 on Windows is complicated. MS is pushing you to get the latest version and getting older version is complicated. X86 should be fine for testing. 
* Install Visual Studio 2010 Express so that you can get Visual C++ 10.0 ... Express only comes with x86 version  http://download.microsoft.com/download/1/E/5/1E5F1C0A-0D5B-426A-A603-1798B951DDAE/VS2010Express1.iso


For Python 3.5:

* Get the latest Python 3.5 x64 and install it for all users in `c:\\Python35`
* Install Microsoft Visual C++ Build Tools 2015. Chose custom install. Check Windows 8.1 SDK and Windows 10 SDK options.