= Dependencies =

A build slave which is to run the Twisted test suite on a particular platform or in a particular configuration needs the following software:

  * [http://python.org/ Python]
    * On Debian, the `python-profiler` package should also be installed.
    * On platforms where the Python headers are separated from the main Python package, these should also be installed (usually `python-dev` or `python-devel`).
  * A C compiler which can build Python extension modules (On POSIX, this usually means gcc; on Windows, some version of Visual Studio, depending on which version of Python is installed; most likely [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/en-us/products/2008-editions/express VS2008 aka VS9])
  * [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/zope.interface zope.interface] (Debian package python-zope.interface)
  * On Windows, [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pywin32/files/pywin32/ pywin32]
  * [http://twistedmatrix.com/ Twisted] - required by buildbot
  * [http://buildbot.net/ BuildBot] - only buildbot-slave is necessary
  * [http://bazaar.canonical.com/en/ bazaar] - sometimes packaged as bazaar-ng
    * [http://wiki.bazaar.canonical.com/ForeignBranches/Subversion?action=show&redirect=BzrForeignBranches/Subversion bzr-svn] (preferred)
    * [http://samba.org/~jelmer/subvertpy/ subvertpy] (dependency of bzr-svn)

As well as all (or as many as possible) of the libraries Twisted depends on:

  * [http://www.dlitz.net/software/pycrypto/ PyCrypto] (Debian package python-crypto)
  * [http://launchpad.net/pyopenssl pyOpenSSL] (depends on [http://openssl.org/ OpenSSL]) (Debian package python-pyopenssl)
  * [http://pyasn1.sourceforge.net/ pyasn1] (Debian package python-pyasn1)
  * [http://gmpy.sourceforge.net/ gmpy] (depends on [http://gmplib.org/ GMP]) (Debian package python-gmpy)
  * SOAPpy (Debian package python-soappy)
  * pygtk (depends on gtk2) (Debian package python-gtk2)
  * [https://launchpad.net/subunit subunit] (Debian package python-subunit)
    * Depends on [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/testtools testtools]

== OS Configuration ==

Unfortunately a few tests in Twisted's test suite will fail if certain guarantees are not made by the environment.  For example, the multicast tests try to use the actual network stack to send multicast packets.  Here are some things that are known about this:

  * For the multicast tests to pass, multicast packets must be routable over localhost.
    * On OS X, this means "Internet Sharing" must be disabled
    * Some Linux distributions have a default iptables rule to drop multicast traffic, or require an explicit iptables rule to allow it.  For example, on Red Hat:
{{{
-A INPUT --dest 224.0.0.0/4 -j ACCEPT
}}}

= Donating a Slave =

What Buildslaves Do You Want?

Adding a buildslave is the first step to improving support on a new platform.

You are welcome to provide buildslaves for your favorite platforms. They will initially go in to the "unsupported" buildslave category. The only official requirement is that they maintain a high degree of uptime (see [ContinuousIntegration/FixYourDamnBuildSlave]). 

== Procedure ==

If you wish to provide a buildslave for twisted, send the follwoing information to buildbot at twisted matrix dot com:

1. Desired slave name.
   This will show up on http://buildbot.twistedmatrix.com/buildslaves
   Something like <name>-<machine-description>

2. Password
   This is sent cleartext.

3. Email address
   This is used to send mail messages when the slave disappears. It
   isn't visible.

4. What builders you want set up.
   - what reactors are available/should be tested
   - path to the python executable, if it isn't the default python on the path.

5. How many parallel builds you want allowed to run.

== Upgrading Buildslaves ==

Build slaves should in general _not_ be upgraded; the point of having a CI
system is to keep things working not to get more better stuff :).  Now, if we
hit an issue where a builder upgrade would be helpful, and the platform would
have a feature we'd like to test, we will surely let you know, and _then_ might
be a good time to upgrade.  

If you *are* going to be upgrading, you should send out a notification with
each upgrade; shooting an email saying that there are new versions, and noting
if there's a resulting build failure (and filing appropriate tickets), would be
useful.

== Creating a Slave ==

A build slave is created with the `buildbot create-slave` command.  This takes the master address, slave name, and slave password as arguments.  The master address is `buildbot.twistedmatrix.com:9987`.  Several other optional arguments are allowed.  It is a good idea to specify a value of around 10 for `--log-count` to avoid unbounded log file growth.  If there are special networking considerations, it may also be useful to specify a value for `--keepalive`.  Other options generally aren't needed.
