= Contributing To Twisted =

There are many ways individuals and organizations can make contributions to Twisted.

Many open source projects are perpetually crunched for volunteer labor. Twisted is no different in this respect — we could always use more help from the community.  However, we are lucky to have something that most projects don't: the ability to convert dollars directly into maintenance that benefits the project.

When you contribute money to the Twisted project, you are directly contributing to get bugs fixed, features implemented, and tickets reviewed.
Donations are [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/TwistedSoftwareFoundation#Background tax-deductible] and can be made via [http://twistedmatrix.com/ "Google Checkout or Paypal"] or directly to the [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/TwistedSoftwareFoundation Twisted Software Foundation].

== Code Contributions ==
===  [#Overview Overview] ===

 * [wiki:BasicGuideToContributingCode Basic Guide To Contributing Code], a simplified overview
 * [wiki:TwistedDevelopment Detailed Contribution Requirements]

=== [#Prepare Prepare] ===
  * [/register Register] on this site
  * Intimately familiarize yourself with [http://divmod.org/trac/wiki/UltimateQualityDevelopmentSystem The Ultimate Quality Development System]
  * Understand the [wiki:Documentation Developer docs] (how-tos, core docs, examples, API reference)
  * Twisted has a rigorous policy standards for code, documentation, and testing:
    * [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/core/development/policy/coding-standard.html Coding standard]
    * [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/core/development/policy/doc-standard.html Documentation standard]
    * [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/core/development/policy/writing-standard.html Writing Style guide]
    * [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/core/development/policy/test-standard.html Testing standard]
    * [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/core/development/policy/svn-dev.html SVN Access]
  * Understand the [wiki:ReviewProcess code review process]
  * [http://buildbot.twistedmatrix.com/ Buildbot] is used to automate the build process across platforms and test for breakage. Watch it. 
    * You'll need to [wiki:UsingBuildbot Use it] before merging a branch.

=== [#Explore Explore and Contribute] ===
  * Examine some of the [source:branches current branches]
  * Take a look at the [/report open tickets]
  * Learn the [wiki:BugKeywords bug keywords]
    * [/query?status=new&status=assigned&status=reopened&keywords=%7Eeasy&order=priority 'Easy' keyword tickets] are low-hanging fruit and good to get your feet wet
  * [wiki:TwistedDevelopment#SubmittingaPatch Submit a Patch] in the  {{{diff -u}}} format by attaching it to an [/report open ticket] in the tracker. You can also create a [/newticket New Ticket] after you have [/register Registered]


== [#OtherWays Other Ways to Contribute] ==

 * [wiki:ReviewingDocumentation Review and add documentation]
 * [wiki:ReviewProcess Code Reviews] 
 * Submit bug reports (you must first be [/register registered])  
 * Provide technical support (answer questions on [TwistedCommunity IRC and the mail lists])
 * Provide [wiki:NeededBuildSlaves needed buildslaves]
