=== Software ===

Twisted's continuous integration solution is BuildBot.  BuildBot runs the Twisted test suite (as well as a couple other tasks) each time a checkin is made to Twisted trunk (and can be asked to do the same for a branch checkin).  This provides developers with immediate feedback about their change across a wide array of platforms and Python versions.  If a test suite failure is ever reported on any ''supported'' platform by BuildBot, the checkin which introduced it is backed out until the failure can be fixed.

==== Build Slaves ====

A build slave is a long-running program that connects to the build master and executes jobs the master sends to it.  A build slave needs to be online almost all of the time.  An offline slave creates uncertainty about whether Twisted trunk is in working order or not.

=== Configuration ===

==== Test Suite ====

The slaves connecting to Twisted's BuildBot master run in a variety of platforms.  These platforms determine what the ''supported'' configurations of Twisted are.

==== Code Coverage ====

As well as running the Twisted test suite, BuildBot also runs coverage reporting tools to generate reports of how much of Twisted is covered by its test suite.  The [wiki:ContinuousIntegration/CoverageSlaveConfiguration configuration] for these slaves is similar to that of normal test slaves, but there are a couple extra dependencies.

==== Documentation ====

BuildBot also generates Twisted's API and howto-style documentation.  These development snapshots are available for people looking for the most bleeding edge Twisted documentation.
