= Documentation =

 * Read our [wiki:FrequentlyAskedQuestions FAQ].
 * Want to use Twisted for '''web development'''? Please read [wiki:WebDevelopmentWithTwisted this page] first!
 * [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/core/documentation/howto/index.html Core Documentation] ([http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/core/documentation/howto/book.pdf view as PDF]) - the code developer guide for Twisted Core, with the famous "Finger" tutorial, details on how to use deferreds, etc.
 * Twisted Core [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/core/documentation/man/ man pages].
 * Twisted Core [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/core/documentation/examples/ examples].
 * View the current [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/api/ API reference].
 * The [wiki:TwistedProjects project] pages have documentation links that are pertinent to each Twisted project. For convenience, we offer some of these links below:
   * '''conch''' (SSH protocol) - [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/conch/documentation/howto/ howtos] and [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/conch/documentation/examples/ examples]
   * '''lore''' (documentation) - [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/lore/documentation/howto/ howtos] and [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/lore/documentation/examples/ examples]
   * '''mail''' (SMTP protocol) - [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/mail/documentation/tutorial/smtpclient/smtpclient.html client tutorial] and [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/mail/documentation/examples/ examples]
   * '''names''' (DNS protocol) - [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/names/documentation/howto/ howtos] and [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/names/documentation/examples/ examples]
   * '''trial''' (testing framework) - [wiki:TwistedTrial docs]
   * '''web''' (HTTP protocol) - [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/web/documentation/howto/ howtos] and [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/web/documentation/examples/ examples]
   * '''web2''' (HTTP protocol redux) - [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/browser/trunk/doc/web2/howto/index.xhtml?format=raw howtos] and [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/browser/trunk/doc/web2/examples/index.xhtml?format=raw examples]
   * '''words''' (instant messaging) - [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/words/documentation/howto/ howtos] and [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/words/documentation/examples/ examples]

== Developer Docs ==

 * Want to contribute? We have a page dedicated to [wiki:ContributingToTwistedLabs documentation for contributors].
 * Here are some notes about [wiki:TwistedDevelopment Twisted Development].

== Mail Lists ==

 * Search the [http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Atwistedmatrix.com+inurl%3Apipermail%2Ftwisted-python&btnG=Search twisted-python] or [http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Atwistedmatrix.com+inurl%3Apipermail%2Ftwisted-web&btnG=Search twisted-web] mail list archives.

== Books == 

 * [http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0596100329/httpitamorg-20?creative=327641&camp=14573&link_code=as1 Twisted Network Programming Essentials] by Abe Fetting, published by O'Reilly.
 * [http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1590593715/httpitamorg-20?creative=327641&camp=14573&link_code=as1 Foundations of Python Network Programming] also covers the use of Twisted to some extent.
 * [http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1584502584/httpitamorg-20?creative=327641&camp=14573&link_code=as1 Game Programming With Python] covers Twisted in the chapters on programming networked games.