== Twisted Project Jobs ==

This page is a list of jobs which need to be done for the continued operation of the Twisted project itself.  These jobs are not represented as tickets because they do not represent direct development on the project.  Instead, they are tasks which involve either some level of ongoing attention, administrative work, or development on software which is not part of Twisted.

The page is currently organized roughly by the piece of software the jobs most require interaction with.

See a task you like? Awesome! Send mail to [http://twistedmatrix.com/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/twisted-python the Twisted mailing list] describing your interest and we'll get you set up.

We encourage you to volunteer for a specified duration.  If you're still having fun with the job when the interval expires, you're welcome to volunteer again - but many of these tasks are tedious and repetitive and we don't want to burn people out on them.  Try rotating from one to another if you continue to have time available to contribute to the project!  And when your stint is over, please try to find a replacement for yourself.

=== Mailing Lists ===

There are several Mailman-hosted mailing lists associated with Twisted.  These occasionally require moderation activities.  This job involves reading emails sent by Mailman about list administration tasks and acting on them as necessary.

 * Assigned to: ''unassigned''
 * Until:

=== BuildBot ===

See ContinuousIntegration for some information about how Twisted uses BuildBot.  

==== Keeping our slaves online ====

The Twisted project itself operates several build slaves.  If these go offline for some reason, they need to be investigated and brought back online.  This job involves monitoring the status of the slaves (email notification of offline slaves is available) and restarting slaves as necessary (for example, after a reboot of a Windows slave).

Unclaimed [http://buildbot.twistedmatrix.com/buildslaves buildslaves]:
 * Assigned to: ''unassigned''
 * Until: 

bot-glyph-2, bot-exarkun-1:
 * Assigned to: jesstess
 * Until: 1 September 2011

==== Keeping volunteer slaves online ====

Various community members also operate build slaves.  If these go offline, the community member needs to be prodded to bring the slave online again.  This is a monitoring job similar to the previous one, but involves asking the community member to resolve the problem until it is resolved.

Assigned to: ''unassigned''
Until: 

=== Speed Center ===

Speed Center is a Django application which collects and reports benchmark results.  Twisted's instance is visible at <http://speed.twistedmatrix.com/>.

==== Maintain the deployment ====

Speed Center is developed primarily by tobami on github - <https://github.com/tobami/codespeed>.  Since the project is very new, we should try to run an up-to-date version, particularly if there are known bug fixes in newer versions.  This job is about upgrading Speed Center once in a while while preserving our existing collected data.

Assigned to: ''unassigned''
Until: 

==== Reporting bugs upstream ====

If we encounter a problem with Speed Center, these need to be reported and any help given to upstream to ensure they are fixed in a timely manner.  This job is about looking over our deployment once in a while and reporting any new issues that are observed, then following up with them with upstream and working with the person maintaining our deployment to deploy fixes.

Assigned to: ''unassigned''
Until: 

=== Trac ===

Twisted uses Trac for several things.  It is the project's issue tracker and runs much of the project's website (everything that's a wiki page).

==== Ticket Spam ====

Anyone can register a new account in trac.
Spammers take advantage of this from time to time to file new tickets containing spam or comment on old tickets with spam.
This job is for skimming all new tickets and deleting the ones filed by spammers as well as deleting the spam account.

The RSS feeds provided by trac are a useful tool in keeping up with all activity.
  * New tickets and ticket changes - http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/timeline?ticket=on&ticket_details=on&max=50&daysback=10&format=rss
  * Wiki changes - http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/timeline?milestone=on&wiki=on&max=50&daysback=90&format=rss

**TODO: How does spam cleanup interact with spam training in the spam plugin now active?**

To delete a spam ticket, visit <https://twistedmatrix.com/trac/admin/ticket/delete>.
Ticket deletion is permanent.
Take extreme care when deleting a spam ticket.
If you accidentally delete a different ticket it can only be recovered from offline backups (if at all).
Triple check the ticket number before submitting the delete form.

To remove a spam account, visit <https://twistedmatrix.com/trac/admin/accounts/users>
Mark the checkbox next to the spam account and use the "Remove Selected Accounts" submission button at the bottom.

To be able to use the ticket deletion form, your trac account needs to be granted the `TICKET_ADMIN` permission.
To be able to use the account removal form, your trac account needs to be granted the `ACCOUNTMGR_USER_ADMIN` permission.
When you take on this job, ask a trac admin for these permissions.
When you resign from this job, ask a trac admin to revoke these permissions.

Assigned to: ''eeshangarg''
Until: 

==== Privilege Assignment ====

Certain other activities in Trac are only available to privileged accounts (for example, editing the descriptions of existing tickets).  This job is for handing out these privileges via the Trac web admin user interface to users who have demonstrated they can be trusted with them.

Assigned to: ''unassigned''
Until: 

=== Version Control Mirrors ===

Twisted continues to be hosted primarily in subversion.  There is interest in (read-only) mirrors hosted in other version control systems, though.

==== Bazaar ====

There is a bzr mirror of the entire subversion repository at <http://svn.twistedmatrix.com/svn/Twisted>.  There is another bzr mirror of trunk only hosted on launchpad, <http://launchpad.net/twisted>.  These are updated via a number of mostly undocumented tools.  One job is to figure out how all of these things interact and write it down, another is to ensure the mirrors remain up-to-date over time.

Assigned to: Adi Roiban
Until: 1 November 2011

==== Git ====

There is a git mirror at <http://svn.twistedmatrix.com/git/Twisted>.  It does not update anymore.  One job is to fix the tools responsible for updating it, another is to ensure that it remains up-to-date after that.

 * Assigned to: ''unassigned''
 * Until:
