{{{
#!html

<h1 id="ActNow:BeaFoundingSponsor"><i>Act Now: Be a Founding Sponsor</i></h1>
<p>
Do you want your name, or your company's name, to be immortalized as one of the first sponsors of the Twisted project?  <a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedSoftwareFoundation">Find out about the benefits of sponsorship today!</a>
</p>
<h1 id="WhatisTwisted">What is Twisted?</h1>

<p>
<a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedProject">Twisted</a> is an event-driven networking engine written in Python and licensed under the <a class="ext-link" href="http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php"><span class="icon">MIT license</span></a>.
</p>
<p>
See <a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/FrequentlyAskedQuestions">the FAQ</a> for commonly asked questions about Twisted.
</p>
If you want to get started with Twisted, the first thing you should do is read the <a href="http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/core/documentation/howto/index.html"><b>Twisted Core Documentation</b></a>.
<p>

<a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedProjects">Twisted projects</a> variously support TCP, UDP, SSL/TLS, multicast, Unix sockets, a large number of protocols (including HTTP, NNTP, IMAP, SSH, IRC, FTP, and others), and <a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedProjects">much more</a>.
</p>
<h2 id="QuickLinks">Quick Links</h2>
<p>
General Information:
</p>
<ul><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/Downloads">Downloads</a> - Get it!
</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/Documentation">Documentation</a> - Everything you need to know to get started.

</li><li>List Info - Access the <a href="http://twistedmatrix.com/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/twisted-python">twisted-python</a> and <a href="http://twistedmatrix.com/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/twisted-web">twisted-web</a> mailing lists.
</li><li><a class="ext-link" href="http://labs.twistedmatrix.com/"><span class="icon">News</span></a> - Read the latest news about Twisted.
</li><li><a href="http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/report">Tracker</a> - <a href="http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=defect">Report a bug</a> or <a href="http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=enhancement">request a feature</a> (<a href="http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/register">Registration</a> is required)

</li></ul><p>
More Useful Pointers:
</p>
<ul><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedCommunity">The Twisted Community</a> - Get in touch with other Twisted users and developers.
</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedDevelopment">Development</a> - Our development process; also, don't miss out on <a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/ContributingToTwistedLabs">contributing</a> to Twisted.
</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/SuccessStories">Success Stories</a> - Read about people who have been successful with Twisted.
</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TheTwistedShow">The Twisted Show</a> - Interviews and podcasts with businesses and projects that use Twisted.

</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/ProjectsUsingTwisted">Software that uses Twisted</a> - Learn what other projects are using Twisted.
</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedMatrixLaboratories">The Labs</a> - What is <i>Twisted Matrix Laboratories</i>?
</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/TwistedSponsors">Sponsors</a> - Individuals and organisations aid development with donations of hardware, software, hosting, and so on.
</li><li><a class="wiki" href="/trac/wiki/Windows">Windows</a> We're especially seeking resources to help improve Twisted on Windows.
</li></ul>
}}}