[[PageOutline(1,Contents)]]

= Twisted Mail =

Twisted Mail contains high-level, efficient protocol implementations for both clients and servers of SMTP, POP3, and IMAP4. Additionally, it contains an "out of the box" combination SMTP/POP3 virtual-hosting mail server. Also included is a read/write Maildir implementation and a basic Mail Exchange calculator (depends on Twisted Names).

Twisted Mail is available under the MIT Free Software licence. 

= Download =
 * [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/mail/NEWS.txt Release notes] for Twisted Mail 0.2.0
 * Stable: Twisted Mail is part of Twisted. Tarballs and Windows installers are at the TwistedProject page.
 * Trunk: svn co svn://svn.twistedmatrix.com/svn/Twisted/trunk Twisted
 * [http://tmrc.mit.edu/mirror/twisted/Mail/0.2/TwistedMail-0.2.0.tar.bz2 Minimal Tarball]. This will require downloading of additional dependencies. We encourage you to use the downloads at TwistedProject, instead of this minimal download.

= Documentation =

[http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/mail/documentation/ Documentation] is available for Twisted Mail. An [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/api/ API reference] of Twisted and all subprojects is also available.

= Contact = 

Subscribe to the [http://twistedmatrix.com/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/twisted-python twisted-python] mailing list or visit the #twisted channel on irc.freenode.net to ask questions.

[http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=defect&component=mail Report a bug] or [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=enhancement&component=mail request a feature] using the issue tracker (registration required), or browse [query:status=new|assigned|reopened&component=mail Twisted Mail tickets].