{{{
#!html
<!-- Begin side bar //-->
<div id="side_bar">

  <div id="download_top">
  &nbsp;
  </div>
  <div id="download">
<!-- place holder for download image /-->
  </div>
  <div id="download_bottom">
  &nbsp;
  </div>


  <div id="donate">
<!-- place holder for donations /-->
  </div>

<!-- End side bar //-->
</div>
}}}

= What is Twisted? =

[wiki:TwistedProject Twisted] is an event-driven networking framework written in Python and licensed under the [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php MIT license].  

See [wiki:FrequentlyAskedQuestions the FAQ] for commonly asked questions about Twisted.



== Twisted Projects ==

Like any engine, Twisted has many "moving parts." [wiki:TwistedProjects Twisted Projects] is our name for these components of Twisted. Taken together, they form the whole of Twisted. 

[wiki:TwistedProjects Twisted projects] variously support TCP, UDP, SSL/TLS, multicast, Unix sockets, a large number of protocols (including HTTP, NNTP, IMAP, SSH, IRC, FTP, and others), and [wiki:TwistedProjects much more].

== Quick Links ==

General Information:

 * [wiki:Downloads Downloads] - get it!
 * [wiki:ArchivedNews News] - Read the latest news items about Twisted. 
 * [wiki:SuccessStories Success Stories] - Read about people who have been successful with Twisted.
 * [wiki:ProjectsUsingTwisted Software that uses Twisted] - Learn what other projects are using Twisted.

More Useful Pointers:

 * [wiki:Documentation] - Everything you need to know to get started.
 * [wiki:TwistedCommunity The Twisted Community] - Get in touch with other Twisted users and developers.
 * [wiki:TwistedDevelopment Development] - Contribute to Twisted.
 * [wiki:TwistedCommunity List Info] - Access the Twisted-Python mailing list.

