[[PageOutline(1,Contents)]]

= Twisted Words =

Twisted Words provides two separate high-level end-user features:

 * a multiprotocol instant messaging server
 * a multiprotocol instant messaging client

These are both still in the early stages of development and are not expected to work flawlessly in all configurations, however each is quite usable for a limited set of functionality.  A Twisted Words server can be created with just a couple commands:

{{{
#!sh
$ mktap words --irc-port 6667 --pb-port 8787 --passwd password_file --group somegroup
$ twistd -f words.tap
}}}

The Twisted Words client is named {{{im}}} and is usable as an IRC client, and possibly an AIM client (depending on the phase of the moon).

= Low Level Functionality =

Twisted Words also includes:

 * Low-level protocol implementations of OSCAR (AIM and ICQ), IRC, MSN, TOC (AIM).
 * Jabber libraries.
 * Prototypes of chat server and client frameworks built on top of the protocols.

Twisted Words is available under the MIT Free Software licence.

= Download =
 * [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/words/NEWS.txt Release notes] for Twisted Words 0.3.0
 * Stable: Twisted Words is part of Twisted. Tarballs and Windows installers are at the TwistedProject page.
 * Trunk: svn co svn://svn.twistedmatrix.com/svn/Twisted/trunk Twisted
 * [http://tmrc.mit.edu/mirror/twisted/Words/0.3/TwistedWords-0.3.0.tar.bz2 Minimal Tarball]. This will require downloading of additional dependencies. We encourage you to use the downloads at TwistedProject, instead of this minimal download.

= Documentation =

[http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/words/documentation/ Documentation] is available for Twisted Words. An [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/api/ API reference] of Twisted and all subprojects is also available.

= Contact = 

Subscribe to the [http://twistedmatrix.com/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/twisted-python twisted-python] mailing list or visit the #twisted channel on irc.freenode.net to ask questions.

[http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=defect&component=words Report a bug] or [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=enhancement&component=words request a feature] using the issue tracker (registration required), or browse [query:status=new|assigned|reopened&component=words Twisted Words tickets].