[[PageOutline(1,Contents)]]

= Twisted News =

Twisted News provides a very basic NNTP server, as well as an NNTP client protocol implementation. Two messages storage systems are supported: the DB-API 2.0 backend stores and indexes messages in any compatible SQL database; the Twisted dirdbm backend uses serialized Python objects stored directly on the filesystem for message storage. Twisted News also has very rudamentary support for moderated groups.

Twisted News is available under the MIT Free Software licence. 

= Download =
 * [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/browser/tags/releases/twisted-news-0.2.0/twisted/news/topfiles/NEWS?format=raw Release notes] for Twisted News 0.2.0
 * Stable: Twisted News is part of Twisted. Tarballs and Windows installers are at the TwistedProject page.
 * Trunk: svn co svn://svn.twistedmatrix.com/svn/Twisted/trunk Twisted
 * [http://tmrc.mit.edu/mirror/twisted/News/0.2/TwistedNews-0.2.0.tar.bz2 Minimal Tarball]. This will require downloading of additional dependencies. We encourage you to use the downloads at TwistedProject, instead of this minimal download.

= Documentation =

An [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/api/ API reference] of Twisted and all subprojects is available.

= Contact = 

Subscribe to the [http://twistedmatrix.com/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/twisted-python twisted-python] mailing list or visit the #twisted channel on irc.freenode.net to ask questions.

[http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=defect&component=news Report a bug] or [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=enhancement&component=news request a feature] using the issue tracker (registration required), or browse [query:status=new|assigned|reopened&component=news Twisted News tickets].
