[[PageOutline(1,Contents)]]

= Twisted Lore =

Lore is a documentation generator.  It is used to generate the Twisted documentation.  It produces output that looks like [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/core/documentation/howto/servers.html this].

Lore processes simple HTML documents (and troff-formatted man-pages) into slightly more complex HTML documents as well as `LaTeX` files (which can, in turn, be used to produce printed documentation [http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/core/documentation/howto/book.pdf such as the Twisted core documentation "book"]).  Its features include linking and syntax-highlighting source listings, "table of contents" generation, and embedding diagrams.  Where they are not automatic, these features are invoked by annotating elements in the input with special `class` attributes, which leaves the input a valid HTML document that can be viewed without the help of lore.

Source listings can be maintained in external files, for easier editing, testing, and debugging of documentation examples.

Twisted Lore is available under the MIT Free Software licence.

= Download =

See the [wiki:Downloads] page.

= Documentation =

[http://twistedmatrix.com/projects/lore/documentation/ Documentation] is available for Twisted Lore. An [http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/current/api/ API reference] of Twisted and all subprojects is also available.

= Tickets =

This [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/query?status=new&status=assigned&status=reopened&group=priority&verbose=1&component=lore&order=priority report] shows Lore's open tickets.

= Contact = 

Subscribe to the [http://twistedmatrix.com/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/twisted-python twisted-python] mailing list or visit the #twisted channel on irc.freenode.net to ask questions.

[http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=defect&component=lore Report a bug] or [http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket?type=enhancement&component=lore request a feature] using the issue tracker (registration required), or browse [query:status=new|assigned|reopened&component=lore Twisted Lore tickets].
